docs: replace LXD for Multipass on the tutorials (#2344)
canonical/ubuntu-advantage-client: docs/tutorials/basic_commands.md

# Getting Started with Ubuntu Pro Client

> The Ubuntu Pro Client (`pro`) provides a simple mechanism for viewing, enabling and

Reviewer: The rest of the tutorial speaks to the user directly, so I amended the wording here to do the same.

disabling Canonical offerings on your system. In this tutorial we will cover the base

> `pro` commands that will allow you to successfully manage the offerings on your machine.

Reviewer: I think here we might want to be a little more specific in saying exactly what the aim of the tutorial is (i.e., what we are going to guide them through), which can then be echoed again in a "summing up" at the very end to reinforce what the user has accomplished. Since tutorials are for learning, I think it's nice to have these sorts of things explicitly stated for the purpose of cementing them in the mind of the user through a sort of repetition/echo (also, if they make it to the end, it helps to leave them with a sense of achievement through completing the steps successfully).

Reviewer: I agree, I think that reads in a much more friendly way - thumbs up from me!

## Prerequisites

> In this tutorial, you will use [Multipass](https://multipass.run/) virtual machines.

Reviewer: As a "new user", I was left feeling a bit confused. If the pro tool allows us to manage the offerings on our machine, why do we need to use a VM? I think it would be helpful to add a brief explanation to explain the context - firstly why we would want to use a VM in the first place, and secondly why we want to use Multipass.

Reviewer: I'm still not 100% clear on why we're using a VM. Is there some reason why we should use one and not just run the commands on our machine directly?

To install multipass on your computer, please follow this [guide](https://multipass.run/install).

> Note that this page also instructs you how to launch Multipass virtual machines (VM) and interact with

Reviewer: I actually didn't like the Multipass tutorial at all - I found it confusing and lacking any sort of context. It was just a list of random commands with no explanation of what they are or when to use them. Since you actually tell the users which commands to use in order to complete *this* tutorial, I strongly recommend just telling them the command for installing Multipass here (sudo snap install multipass), and only pointing users to the Multipass tutorial if they're using Windows or MacOS. That command was the only thing I used from the Multipass tutorial, because none of the others are explained.

This may incidentally require also providing a link to snap (as the Multipass tutorial does), or telling them to how to install that - but Ubuntu machines with come with the snap store by default, right? So again, it would just be for non-Ubuntu users

Reviewer: +1

> # Getting Started with Ubuntu Pro Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Getting started with Ubuntu Pro Client
```

The Ubuntu Pro Client (`pro`) provides a simple mechanism for viewing, enabling and

> disabling offerings from Canonical on their system. In this tutorial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
disabling offerings from Canonical on your system. In this tutorial
```

we will cover the base `pro` commands that allow you to successfully manage the offering
on your machine.

## Prerequisites

On this tutorial, you will use [Multipass](https://multipass.run/) virtual machines (VM).

We have chosen Multipass for this tutorial because it allows us to easily launch VMs while not
requiring any complicated setup for the tool.

To install Multipass on your computer, please run the following command on your machine:

```console
$ sudo snap install multipass
```

## Main `pro` commands

> When dealing with `pro` through the CLI, there are six `pro` commands that cover the main

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When dealing with `pro` through the CLI, there are six commands that cover the main
```

* **disable**

In this tutorial, we will go through all those commands to show how to properly use them.

> To achieve that, we will use a Xenial Multipass virtual machine.

Reviewer: What's the difference between a Xenial Multipass VM and a regular one? I found the change in terminology throughout to be a bit confusing - sometimes you refer to the Multipass VM, and sometimes to the Xenial one. Are they not the same thing?

Author: There is none. I am changing the text to only use `Xenial Multipass VM`. But let me know is you think this is too verbose

Reviewer: Probably what I would recommend in that case is using "Xenial Multipass VM" for the first time you refer to Multipass, and just mentioning that thereafter you'll be calling it whatever you want to call it (and only using that for the rest of the page). As long as it's defined right at the start, it shouldn't cause any problems.

## Creating the Xenial Multipass virtual machine

To test all of those commands, let's create a Xenial Multipass VM. Remember to install multipass as
mentioned in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. After that, just run the command:

```console
$ multipass launch xenial --name dev-x
```

After running that, let's access the VM by running:

```console

> $ multipass shell dev-x

Reviewer: Should we include the expected output here as well? So that users know if they've created it correctly?

* **disable**

In this tutorial, we will go through all those commands to show how to properly use them.
To achieve that, we will use a Xenial Multipass virtual machine.

## Creating the Xenial Multipass virtual machine

To test all of those commands, let's create a Xenial Multipass VM. Remember to install multipass as
mentioned on the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. After that, just run the command:

```console
$ multipass launch xenial --name dev-x
```

After running that, let's access the VM by running:

```console
$ multipass shell dev-x
```

> 

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/116022293/205892994-11650ac9-b1ce-4fbf-9eb5-e338b7d06963.png)

Reviewer: I got stuck here - I managed to install multipass and start the VM, but it didn't like the "pro status" command.

* **disable**

In this tutorial, we will go through all those commands to show how to properly use them.

> To achieve that, we will use a Xenial Multipass VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this without making any modifications to your machine, we will use a Xenial Multipass VM.
```

## Creating the Xenial Multipass virtual machine

> To test all of those commands, we will enable services on the machine. To avoid modifying your
> machine, let's create a VM. Remember to install Multipass as mentioned on the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
> section. After that, just run the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step in creating our VM is to install Multipass, as mentioned in the
[Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section. After that, just run the command:
```

Reviewer: Upon a more detailed reading, the end of the last section and the start of this one are basically the same. I recommend constructing it this way instead (my suggested changes), so that at the end of the last section we are basically saying "this is what we'll do next" and then launch straight into "this is how we do it".

```console
$ multipass launch xenial --name dev-x
```

After running that, let's access the VM by running:

```console
$ multipass shell dev-x
```

Notice that when you run that command, that your terminal username and hostname will change to:

```
ubuntu@dev-x
```

This indicates that you are now inside the VM.

> Finally, let's run an `apt update` and `apt upgrade` command on the virtual machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, let's run an `apt update` and `apt upgrade` command on the virtual
machine to ensure that you are operating on the correct version:
```

See https://ubuntu.com/pro
```

> You can see that the status command shows the services available for that given machine,
> while also presenting a short description for each of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that the status command shows the services available to your machine,
while also presenting a short description for each service.
```

### Refresh

In the last section, we mentioned that your contract can expire. Although free tokens never expire, if
you buy an Ubuntu Pro subscription and later need to renew the contract, how can you make your machine aware of
it? You can do this through the `refresh` command:

> ```console

Reviewer: Can't add a comment where I wanted to - in line 181, you say "After you modify your subscription for that". I got a bit confused about what this meant, and didn't realise you were referring to the website. Might be worth clarifying this (or linking to the same site, with "modify your subscription" as the link text).

Author: Done, let me know what you think

Reviewer: LGTM :)

```

This command will disable all of the Ubuntu Pro services on the machine for you and
remove the subscription stored on your machine during attach.

```{note}
The detach command will also not uninstall any packages that were installed by
any service enabled through `pro`.
```

> ### Final steps

Reviewer: I hope you'll forgive me for the change, but I thought that the step of tearing down the VM should be presented before discussing the next steps available to the user.

Before you finish this tutorial, exit the VM by running `CTRL-D` and delete it by running
the following commands on the machine:
```console
$ multipass delete dev-x
$ multipass purge
```

### Next steps

This tutorial has covered the 6 main commands of `pro`. If you need more advanced options to configure

> the tool, please take a look at the _How To Guides_. If that still doesn't cover

Reviewer: I've added it to my list of things for us to do in the new year. It'd be nice to have it now, but it's not worth holding up this PR for. I'll call this resolved.

```

This command will disable all of the Ubuntu Pro services on the machine for you and
remove the subscription stored on your machine during attach.

```{note}
The detach command will also not uninstall any packages that were installed by
any service enabled through `pro`.
```

### Final steps

Before you finish this tutorial, exit the VM by running `CTRL-D` and delete it by running
the following commands on the machine:

```console
$ multipass delete dev-x
$ multipass purge
```

### Next steps

> Great, you successfully ran a Multipass VM and used it to test out the 6 main commands of Ubuntu Pro. congratulations!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great, you successfully ran a Multipass VM and used it to test out the 6 main commands of Ubuntu Pro. Congratulations!
```

> If you need more advanced options to configure the tool, please take a look at the _How To Guides_. If that still doesn't cover

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would now like to see some more advanced options to configure the tool,
please take a look at our _How To Guides_. If that still doesn't cover
```
